# Parkinson's Detection using Blood Biomarkers

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85643015/234387131-a01feabb-f7f7-4438-aac0-6a37c96a4606.mp4


This repository contains the source code, data, and documentation for our company's AI-driven personalized medicine solutions. Our goal is to revolutionize the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of brain tumors by leveraging artificial intelligence and personalized medicine.

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Omics Technologies](#omics-technologies)
    - [Biomarkers](#biomarkers)
    - [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Installation](#installation)
4. [Usage](#usage)
    - [Early Detection Model](#early-detection-model)
    - [Personalized Treatment Plans](#personalized-treatment-plans)
    - [Patient Monitoring and Treatment Adjustment](#patient-monitoring-and-treatment-adjustment)
5. [Contributing](#contributing)
6. [License](#license)

## Introduction

Our solution comprises three main components:

1. Early Detection Model: AI-driven models for early detection of brain tumors using accessible biomarker data.
2. Personalized Treatment Plans: Personalized treatment plans generated by integrating patient data, genomics, and AI predictions.
3. Patient Monitoring and Treatment Adjustment: Advanced AI algorithms for monitoring patient progress and adjusting treatment plans as needed.

Current brain tumour diagnosis relies on surgical biopsy and light microscopic examination of tissue, which has several drawbacks. Our goal is to investigate new 'omics' technologies such as genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics for brain tumour diagnosis and improved classification systems.

### Omics Technologies
- Wearables data: collecting vitals data to understand long-term changes in health. 
- Genomics: Involves studying the gene content of tumour cells to predict outcome and individualize treatment.
- Proteomics: Analyzes the protein content of tumour cells to identify biomarker signatures and potential drug targets.
- Metabolomics: Examines the metabolite content of tumour cells for distinct metabolic profiles of different tumour types and normal brain tissue.

### Biomarkers
- Biomarker signatures improve diagnostic accuracy compared to individual biomarkers.
- Serum biomarkers: Focuses on blood, which is easily accessible and may contain molecules related to disrupted blood-brain barriers in brain tumour patients.
- Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers: Although more invasive, CSF may contain higher levels of potential biomarkers than serum.
- Tissue biomarkers: Can help in classifying tumours, predicting outcomes, and determining optimal treatment.

### Data Analysis
- Complex data generated from biomarker discovery experiments require specialized pattern recognition software.
- Unsupervised cluster analysis and the training-and-testing set approach are two common methods for developing classifiers.

By leveraging omics technologies, we aim to provide more accurate brain tumour classification systems and improve diagnosis and treatment for patients.

## Getting Started

### Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- numpy
- pandas
- scikit-learn
- PyTorch
- Flask

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```python
git clone https://github.com/Omneer/omneer.git
cd omneer
```

2. Set up a virtual environment and activate it:
```python
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
3. Install the required projects
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Early Detection Model

1. Train the early detection model:
```python
python train_early_detection.py
```

2. Use the early detection model to predict the presence of brain tumors:
```python
python predict_early_detection.py --input data/sample_input.csv --output results/predictions.csv
```


### Personalized Treatment Plans

1. Train the personalized treatment model:

```python
python train_personalized_treatment.py
```

2. Generate personalized treatment plans:
```python
python predict_personalized_treatment.py --input data/sample_input.csv --output results/treatment_plans.csv
```

### Patient Monitoring and Treatment Adjustment

1. Train the patient monitoring model:
```python
python train_patient_monitoring.py
```

2. Monitor patient progress and adjust treatment plans:
```python
python predict_patient_monitoring.py --input data/sample_input.csv --output results/monitoring_results.csv
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community. If you'd like to contribute to our project, please submit a pull request or open an issue with your proposed changes or suggestions.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information.






